DOOM II: Hell on EarthADDENDUMWelcome to Doom IIª. Before playing, you'll need to read the DOOM II manual and this addendum which contains information for playing in Multiplayer mode, as well as technical support and troubleshooting instructions. You may also want to refer to the ReadMe file in your DOOM II directory for additional information on starting and playing DOOM II.SYSTEM REQUIREMENTSDOOM II for the Macintosh¨ requires a Macintosh or Macintosh compatible computer with a minimum of a 68040, 68LC040 or PowerPCª processor with 8 megs of RAM (4000K of free RAM is required), and a hard disk drive. A monitor that supports 256 colors/grays with a minimum resolution of 640 x 400 pixels is required. System 7.1 or later is required. An AppleTalk¨ network, either LocalTalk¨ or Ethernet, is required for network play between Macintosh computers, and a network that uses the IPX/MacIPX protocol is required for network gameplay between Macintosh and PC-compatible computers. A modem that can be set to 9600 baud is required for modem gameplay.DOOM II runs faster on Macintosh computers with faster processors, such as the PowerPC 601 or 604. To improve DOOM II's speed on your system you can reduce the screen size, use Low Detail, or run DOOM II with fewer System Extensions enabled. You can also choose "Kill Finder" from the Options dialog to minimize the effect of the System on DOOM II's performance (the Finderª will automatically restart when you quit DOOM II).If you have the CD version of DOOM II, we suggest that you install it to your hard disk drive before playing. Speed problems on marginal systems increase when running DOOM II directly from your CD.MACINTOSH GRAPHICSThe "full screen" size of DOOM II for the Macinotsh is 640 x 400, not 640 x 480, and may not fill your entire monitor. This resolution was chosen in order to support both a number of PowerBook screens as well as to remain compatible with the great number of WAD files that are currently available for the IBM PC. WAD files can be downloaded from a number of on-line services such as America Online, Compuserve, eWorldª, and others.If your monitor supports more than one screen resolution, we suggest you select the 640 x 480 resolution as this will cause DOOM II to fill more of your screen than if other resolutions are selected. Use the Monitors Control Panel to select the resolution of each of your monitors. DOOM II will display itself on your "Main" monitor if you have more than one monitor. The "Main" monitor is the one with your menubar. To change your main monitor, drag the little menubar to another monitor in the Monitors Control Panel and restart your Macintosh.You can also select "Small Graphics" under the Options menu in order to make DOOM II run faster on slower Macintosh models. A minimum of a 33Mhz 68040/68LC040 is recommended.INSTALLING DOOM II FROM 3.5" DISKSDOOM II is too large to run from a floppy disk, so before playing you must first install DOOM II to your hard disk drive. To install DOOM II, follow these steps:1. Make a back up copy of your original disks.2. Put disk #1 in your disk drive. Once the disk is visible on your desktop, double-click the "DOOM II Installer" icon.3. Choose the options you need. QuickTimeª 2.0, Sound Managerª 3.0, and MacIPX are all included on the distribution disks. You do not have to install all of these files if you already have current (or later) versions of these System Extensions. The full installation requires that you have about 20 MB of free space on your hard disk drive.4. Click the "Install" button. The installation program will prompt you to insert additional disks from the original set as they are needed.5. If you need to install any System Extensions (such as Sound Manager 3.0), you can drag them from the "System Software" folder on top of your System Folder on your hard disk drive. The "System Software" folder is located within the "Doom II" folder that was created during installation. If you have more than 1 hard disk drive, drag the extensions to the System Folder on your startup drive (usually the one on the desktop closest to the menubar).6. You will need to restart your Macintosh if you have installed any System Extensions.INSTALLING DOOM II FROM YOUR CD1. Insert your DOOM II CD into your CD drive. The CD's icon should be displayed on your desktop. Double-click the icon to open it.2. Double-click the "Doom II Installer" icon.3. Choose the options you need. QuickTime 2.0, Sound Manager 3.0, and MacIPX are all included on the distribution disks. You do not have to install all of these files if you already have current (or later) versions of these System Extensions. The full installation requires that you have about 20 MB of free space on your hard disk drive.4. Click the "Install" button. The installation program will prompt you to insert additional disks from the original set as they are needed. Doom II is installed as a "fat" application - that is, it can be run on either Power Macintosh or 68K-based Macintosh computers.5. If you need to install any System Extensions (such as Sound Manager 3.0), you can drag them from the "System Software" folder on top of your System Folder on your hard disk drive. The "System Software" folder is located within the "Doom II" folder that was created during installation. If you have more than 1 hard disk drive, drag the extensions to the System Folder on your startup drive (usually the one on the desktop closest to the menubar).6. You will need to restart your Macintosh if you have installed any System Extensions.NOTE: Do not rename the Doom2.WAD file after it has been installed. DOOM II looks for this file by name and can become confused if the file is renamed.RUNNING DOOM II DIRECTLY FROM THE CD1. You can also quickly install Doom II by merely dragging the "Doom II" icon onto your hard disk drive. This will allow you to play the game directly from the CD, although it will be slower than playing from your hard disk drive.2. You may also selectively install different portions of the program and the related files. You could install the music files to your hard disk drive, but leave the "WAD" file on the CD, or vice versa. If you are playing with music turned on, we suggest that you move the folder named "Music" to your hard disk drive.RUNNING DOOM 1 (DOOM II CD ONLY)1. Install Doom II as listed above (either from CD, or as listed for directly from CD).2. Drag the file named "DOOM.WAD" into same folder on your hard disk drive that contains the Doom II application. Do not rename the DOOM.WAD file.3. Double-click the file named "DOOM.WAD" (or drag the file on top of the Doom II application icon).ABOUT SYSTEM EXTENSIONSSystem Extensions provide functionality not normally built into your system. There are a number of system extensions that will impact the speed of your Macintosh, and therefore, the speed of DOOM II. You should disable all Extensions and Control Panels that are not needed while playing DOOM II. A number of extensions, including RAM Doubler, AppleTalk, File Sharing Extension, and SpaceSaver, will have a profound impact on the performance of DOOM II and should therefore be disabled prior to playing DOOM II.To disable System Extensions, do the following:(System 7.5 or later) Open the folder named "Control Panels" within the System Folder of your startup disk drive. Double-click the "Extensions Manager" icon. (You may be able to select "Control Panels" and then "Extensions Manager" through the Apple Menu.) Each Extension and Control Panel will be listed and can be toggled on or off by clicking on the name of the extension. A check mark indicates that the Extension is currently enabled.(System 7.1 or later) Create a folder within your System Folder named "Extensions (disabled)" and one named "Control Panels (disabled)". Drag all your unnecessary Extensions and Control Panels (respectively) into these folders from the "Extensions" and "Control Panels" folders.EXTENSIONS YOU NEEDFor PowerPCs, we suggest that you disable all Extensions and Control Panels except QuickTime, QuickTime PowerPlug, Sound, Sound Manager, Memory, Keyboard, General Controls and any "Tune-Up" extensions currently supported by Apple Computer, Inc. A Tune-Up Extension called "Apple Multimedia Tuner" is available for those running QuickTime 2.0 and Sound Manager 3.0 which fixes a number of problems on various Macintosh models and is available via on-line services such as America Online and eWorld. For 68K-based Macintoshes, you should also disable "QuickTime PowerPlug". If you are playing from CD, you will need to enable the Apple CD-ROM extension, although you will not need Foreign File Access, or any of the Foreign File Access modules.Some system versions, including System 7.5, have Sound Manager 3.0 built in and will not require the Sound Manager Extension. You may also have a later version of QuickTime or Sound Manager than is included in the distribution CD or disks. Before replacing any System Software you should first try running Doom II. If the needed version is not available, you will be informed via a dialog that a certain version is required.PowerPC owners should note that Sound Manager 3.0 is not a "native" system extension and will thus slow the execution speed of your Macintosh. The first native version of the Sound Manager will be 3.1, which should be released by Apple Computer sometime in 1995 (our estimate, not theirs). If you have a PowerPC-based Macintosh you should upgrade to that Sound Manager version as soon as it is available.MULTIPLAYER ADDENDUMGETTING STARTEDNUMBER OF PLAYERS: A maximum of four people can play multiplayer DOOM II on a network. A maximum of two players can play multiplayer DOOM II via a serial or modem connection.VERY IMPORTANT: Modem play is implemented through Apple's Communication Toolbox. We have enclosed a tool called "Apple Modem Tool" which may or may not work with your modem. Some modems come with a Comm Toolbox tool. If so, use the tool that came with your modem, or contact your modem manufacturer to obtain a CTB Tool for use with your particular model.You may also find it possible to use other types of connection tools in order to play DOOM II. A number of third party vendors sell various tools to support such protocols as TCP/IP (internet connections).MULTIPLE GAMES ON THE NET (IPX/MacIPX): You must be on an IPX network and have MacIPX installed in your system to play in IPX multiplayer mode. Before launching Doom II, open the MacIPX control panel and select a MacIPX interface. If you are using the Ethernet interface, double-click on the Ethernet icon to select the frame type. You must be sure to use the same frame type on all machines. Ethernet 802.3 is what most PCs will be using. Note that if you check the "Always Auto-Configure Frame Type" box, you might have a different frame type the next time you restart your computer.To run an IPX network game select the "MacIPX" button in the "Multiplayer Setup" dialog.  Then enter the number of players. More than one group of players can play a multiplayer game on the same IPX network by using a different network socket. Valid network socket values are 0 (default) through 64000. Make sure that each player in your game has entered the same value in the "Network Socket" box. Press the "Start Game" button to begin play.MULTIPLE GAMES ON APPLETALK: Wait until the first group is already playing a game before initiating a new game. Do not attempt to begin a game with more than four players. The results in such cases are undefined - that is, DOOM II can become confused about who is playing and who is not playing. Also note that only one person in a multiplayer game should click the "Initiate Connection" button. For modem play, this will be the player who is making the phone call over the modem. Everyone should agree who will initiate play before starting DOOM II.MULTIPLAYER INSTRUCTIONSMany of the rules for playing DOOM II change for the multiplayer game. Read the following information carefully before you begin to play DOOM II in multiplayer mode.MENUS: When you activate the Options menu or submenus, the game KEEPS RUNNING so that other players can continue with the action. So it is best to find a safe place before adjusting screen sizes or sound volumes. Note that on the Macintosh while holding down a menu bar or customizing your key commands this is STOP all players (the game will appear "locked", though the mouse can be moved and menus selected). Consider other players when making changes.UNPAUSE: A player may Pause the game by pressing Command-P or selecting "Pause" from the Commands menu, but any other player can Unpause the game by selecting "Pause" again. Make sure it's OK with your buddies before taking a breather.SAVE: When you save a multiplayer game, DOOM II prompts everyone to name the file (or select a slot if playing on a PC). Before saving the game with PC users, everyone should agree on a safe savegame slot.LOAD: You cannot load a saved game while playing a multiplayer game. To load a game everyone must quit from the current game and restart the game from the saved game. To start a game from a saved game, you can double-click the saved game file from the Finder or drag its icon on top of the Doom II application icon to relaunch DOOM II. PC users can select the game from the SETUP program or identify it as a command line parameter.WEAPONS: When a player runs over a weapon, he picks it up, but the weapon remains in the game for other players to take. Note: Shotguns dropped by former human sergeants are removed from the game after being picked up or smashed. Note: By selecting "Respawn Items" in the Multiplayer Options dialog, weapons you pick up with disappear but will reappear later during the game.DEATH: If you die and restart in the level, previously taken items and destroyed monsters DON'T reappear. Even though you've died, other players have survived. We didn't want to undo all of their fine destruction by reviving every monster in the area. This also means the level will eventually run dry of monsters and ammunition. You can avoid this by selecting the Nightmare skill level - monsters that will respawn after they've been smacked down. You can also enable the "Respawn" option in the Options dialog (at the beginning "splash" screen) to force DOOM II to revive destroyed monsters in any difficulty level.TELEPORTERS: When a player enters a teleporter, anything that is standing on his or her destination teleporter will be destroyed. This is called telefragging. This humiliating form of death is second in shame only to being bludgeoned by your opponents knuckles. It can be avoided by getting off the teleporter as quickly as possible.UNIFORM COLORS: If net games, each player's uniform is a different color. The color of your character is the color behind your face on the status bar. The colors are BROWN, INDIGO (black), GREEN, and RED.CHAT MODE: In a multiplayer game you can communicate with other players in the Chat mode. To enter into Chat mode and broadcast a message to all the players, press the letter "T". A cursor will appear in the top left corner of the screen. Type your message and press the <Return> key to send it. To broadcast to a specific player, instead of pressing "T" you'll need to press the Option key and the first letter of the player's color (B)rown, (I)ndigo, (G)reen, and (R)ed.CHAT MACROS: In a multiplayer game, you can send your own pre-defined macros by initiating Chat mode (as stated above), then holding down the Option key and pressing the number key that corresponds to the macro you wish to send. For example, if macro #2 is "Eat it and die!", initiate Chat mode by pressing "T", then hold down Option and press 2. Chat macros can be customized within the Options dialog at the beginning splash screen.EXITING A LEVEL: When one player exits a level, all players instantly exit with him, regardless of their position or their status.COOPERATIVE OR DEATHMATCH MODEThere are two ways to play multiplayer - DeathMatch or Cooperative. In Cooperative mode the players work together. In DeathMatch mode your mission is to kill everything that moves, including your buddies. You can choose which mode you wish to play in the Multiplayer Options dialog. The differences between Cooperative and DeathMatch mode are as follows:WHERE YOU START: In Cooperative mode each player begins in the same area. In DeathMatch mode the players begin in completely different areas - if you want to see your buddy you'll need to hunt him down. And to make the hunt more interesting, each time you die you'll restart in one of several random locations.KEYS: In DeathMatch mode the players start each location with the keys necessary for opening any locked door in that area.STATUS BAR: In DeathMatch mode the ARMS section on the status bar is replaced with FRAG, indicating the number of times you've killed your opponents.AUTOMAP: In Cooperative mode the Automap works the same way it does in single-player mode. Each player is represented by a different color arrow. In DeathMatch mode you won't receive the pleasure of seeing your opponents on the map. Just like the monsters, your friends could be just around the corner, and you won't know until you face them.SPY MODE: If you're playing in Cooperative mode, press F12 or Command-2 to toggle through the other player's viewpoint(s). Press any other key to return to your view. You still retain your own status bar at the bottom, and if your view reddens from pain it is YOU, not your partner, who has been hit.COOPERATIVE OR DEATHMATCH MODE: When playing DeathMatch you may think it is preferable to kill yourself rather than having your opponent kill you and gain a frag. Think again! DOOM II takes a frag from your total when you take the easy way out.Tip: Don't get too close to your opponent when shooting him with a missile launcher.INTERMISSION SCREENS: In both Cooperative and DeathMatch modes the intermission screen tallies your achievements. In Cooperative modethe intermission screen lists the achievements for all players in the game. In DeathMatch mode the intermission provides a death count for everyone, letting you know who killed whom.DEATHMATCH MODE GAMEPLAY NOTESThe rules for completing or winning a DeathMatch game have intentionally been left general. Any player can exit an area and force all the players to move to the next area. Also, there is no limit on how many kills are required to declare a player the winner. We decided to leave this up to you.TROUBLE SHOOTING ADDENDUMIf you require technical assistance to run DOOM II, call GT Interactive Software's Technical Support line at (212) 951-3126. If possible, be near your computer when calling for technical support. Please have information regarding your system setup and configuration available.IMPORTANT: Before changing your system or software setup we recommend that you review your system manuals to ensure that your modifications will not endanger any existing information or hardware on your system or network. Modifying your system or your software setup can be dangerous, and we cannot help you with any resulting problems.When DOOM II runs, I get a "Insufficient memory" error or DOOM II just doesn't run.You don't have enough free RAM to run DOOM II. Try allocating more memory for DOOM II by selecting the Doom II icon (click on it ONCE), then select "Get Info" from the File menu while in the Finder. Increase the number listed as the "Preferred size:".DOOM II runs really slow, or locks or "pauses" on a fast system (such as a PowerPC-based Macintosh).Refer to the section above about disabling System Extensions and Control Panels that are not required in order to run DOOM II. Turn off all unnecessary Extensions and Control Panels. Also, you can select "Kill Finder" in the Options screen, accessed by clicking on Options in the startup screen. If you are running from a CD, copy the Doom2.WAD file and the Music folder to your hard disk drive and eject the CD.All PowerPC chips are not created equal. The PowerPC 601, for instance, is much faster than the 603. Reduce the screen size, or change to the Low Resolution (use F5 to change resolutions).One player may be accessing a menu or the keyboard options screen, which cause all other players in multiplayer mode to wait until the operation is complete. Frag the player responsible to show your disapproval.The function keys don't seem to work as advertised.Some system extensions (such as QuicKeys from CE Software) will "remap" the function keys to other uses. Disable these extensions, or temporarily turn them off while playing DOOM II.The Music sounds horrible, but I have QuickTime 2.0 loaded.Ensure that you have a file called "QuickTime Musical Instruments" installed in your Extensions folder. That folder is located in your System Folder of your startup hard disk drive. If not, copy it from the CD into the Extensions folder (it's located in the System Software folder in the QuickTime folder).Music is slower on the Macintosh than it is on the IBM PC.QuickTime is used for music (it's software), and is not as fast as the MIDI-compatible sound cards (hardware) that are common on IBM PCs. Thus, it has to share the processor time with DOOM II. Turn music off by selecting "Music" under the Options menu, or disable the QuickTime extension altogether.I can't hear any music or sound effects even after changing the Sound and Music volumes using the Doom menu.Check your master volume controls in the Sound Control panel. The volume controls in DOOM II change the DOOM II output to the range defined by the Macintosh's sound output volume setting.I've tried everything and still there's no music.QuickTime allocates memory in both the "system heap" and "application heap" and may not have enough memory. By disabling System Extensions and Control Panels and by selecting "Kill Finder" in the Options menu you should free enough memory for QuickTime to make its needed memory allocations on a Macintosh with 8MB of installed RAM. You can determine the amount of installed RAM by selecting "About This Macintosh..." under the Apple menu while in the Finder. If the amount of RAM you allocate for DOOM II is too high, however, you may prevent QuickTime from operating (see the error about "Insufficient Memory" above).During startup, the DOOM II startup stops at "Looking for players..."This occurs when you enter a number of players greater than the amount of players actually entering the game. For example, if you only have three players playing, but you tell DOOM II to expect four players, it will wait until the fourth player starts the game. Press Escape or Command-Period to exit and restart the game with the correct number of players.I've received the message, "Consistency Failure" while running DOOM II in multiplayer mode.For DOOM II to run properly as a multiplayer game, all of the machines that are running DOOM II must maintain a nearly identical status of the game during network play. If you receive this message, something has occurred which caused the multiplayer game on one computer to be different from the multiplayer games running on the other systems. If this occurs, all of the players must quit from DOOM II and restart the game.I've received the message, "Different versions of DOOM II cannot play a net game".To improve DOOM II, id Software updates it when necessary. You cannot play a multiplayer game with someone who is using a different version of DOOM II. The Macintosh version number is not identical with the overall "DOOM II" version number. Version 1.0 for Macintosh supports Doom II Version 1.9 for the PC. Any updates of the Macintosh version will specify the PC version needed. Updates ("patches") can be found on on-line services or on the internet.Why can't I get DOOM II to run as a multiplayer game over IPX/MacIPX?If someone else is running DOOM II in Multiplayer mode over an IPX network you may receive a network port conflict. From the Multiplayer Options dialog, change DOOM II to run under a different port. Consult with the person in charge of your network to receive a valid port address. You must also ensure that you are using a compatible version of IPX (most PCs use Ethernet 802.3, which can be specified in the MacIPX Control Panel). Also, make sure that you have "Always Auto-Configure Frame Type" turned off.Why isn't the motion smooth?If the animation isn't running smoothly on your system you should try reducing the window size and/or play DOOM II in LOW resolution mode. Also ensure that you have disabled any unnecessary Control Panels or System Extensions. Refer to your DOOM II manual or this addendum for instructions on these options.DOOM II also reads data in from the WAD file as it is needed. If you have enough memory, create a RAM disk using the Memory Control Panel and copy your WAD file onto the disk image (it will show up on your desktop). Double-click the copy of the WAD file on your RAM disk to launch DOOM II and use the RAM disk copy. The DOOM2.WAD file is about 14 MB, so you will need a LOT of RAM to make use of this option (reduce Doom II's memory requirement to 4000K while using a RAM disk).I'm tired of looking at the company logos at startup.Press Escape or click the mouse button to skip these. Pressing "Q", "O", "M" or "A" is equivalent to clicking the "Quit", "Options", "Multiplayer", and "Alone" buttons in the main splash screen.I can't see the mouse or access the menubar.Press Command-K to return to Keyboard mode (mouse enabled for the menubar). To enable the mouse for control of movement within DOOM II, press Command-M (or Command-J for Joystick).Lion Entertainment, Inc. is a trademark of Lion Entertainment, Inc. All rights reserved. DOOM, DOOM II, the DOOM II logo and the DOOM II likeness are trademarks of id Software, Inc. All rights reserved. Developed by Lion Entertainment, Inc. and id Software, Inc. Distributed by GT Interactive Software. Copyright © 1994 GT Interactive Software, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Apple, Macintosh, PowerBook, AppleTalk, LocalTalk, QuickTime and eWorld are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Mac, Sound Manager, Power Mac, Power Macintosh, and Finder are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. IBM is a registered trademark of International Business Machines Corporation. PowerPC is a trademark of International Business Machines Corporation. All other trademarks are the property of their respective companies.Page  