DOOM II INSTRUCTION MANUALMACINTOSH VERSIONTABLE OF CONTENTS<Change as necessary>PLEASE DON'T MAKE ILLEGAL COPIES<No changes needed>IMPORTANT NOTE TO MULTIPLAYER MODE USERS<No changes needed>IF YOU REQUIRE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE<No changes needed>THE STORY CONTINUES...DOOM II: Hell on Earth<No changes needed>OBJECT OF THE GAME<No changes needed>USING THE DOOM II MENUWhen you launch DOOM II a self-running demo will begin. To access the DOOM II menu, press the Spacebar. Use the arrow keys to move the skull cursor up and down. If you have selected either "Mouse" or "Joystick" under the Options menu, you may also use the mouse or joystick to move the cursor up and down. When the skull is adjacent to a desired selection, press the Enter key, mouse button, or joystick Fire button to activate that selection.If you're in a game, you can bring up the menu at any time by pressing the Escape key. Almost all of the Menu options can be activated directly by using a function key, or a pull-down menu, thus bypassing the menus entirely. To exit the menu, press the Escape key or to return to the previous menu from a submenu press the Backspace key.<Insert 2 screen shots of Macintosh Doom II menus>NEW GAMEIf you want to jump into the action, select this. You may also select "New..." from the File menu. DOOM II will ask you to set the difficulty level. Each difficulty level differs in the toughness of the enemies you'll face. Beware the Nightmare level of difficulty. It is definitely not suitable for inexperienced game players.LOADING AND SAVING YOUR GAMEGames can be saved or loaded at any time during the gameplay. To save a game, enter the name of the game (the default name contains of the episode and map/level number), and click the Save button. To load a game, simply select the appropriate game from the Load Game menu. You can also switch to the Finder (unless you've "killed" it) and double-click a saved game file to load a game, or select "Open" from the File menu and select a saved game file using the standard Macintosh "get file" dialog.QUICKSAVE:  Pressing the function key F6, or selecting "Save" from the File menu, allows you to Save a game without leaving the action. If you have already saved a game, that file is overwritten when you select "Save", otherwise the standard file naming dialog will appear. Pressing F9 (or Command-9) loads in the last game you have saved. The Command key is the key that looks like a cloverleaf () and is usually located to the right and left of the spacebar on most Apple keyboards.QUIT GAMEQuit Game enables you to quit from DOOM II and return to the Finder. You may also press Command-Q or F10, or select "Quit" from the File menu to quit DOOM II.END GAMEThis allows you to end the current game without exiting to the Finder or loading a new game. You can also press F7 or Command-7 to end your current game.MESSAGESIn DOOM II, whenever you pick up an item, you'll receive information about the thing you just picked up. This option lets you toggle DOOM II's messages on and off. You can also press F8 or Command-8 to toggle messages on and off.GRAPHIC DETAILThe default setting for the screen detail is LOW. If you have a Power Macintosh or a fast 68040-based Macintosh, you may wish to select MEDIUM or HIGH resolution. To change the graphic detail, select this option or press F5 or Command-5 to change to the next resolution. If messages are turned on, the current resolution will be displayed for you momentarily in the upper left of the screen.SCREEN SIZEJust below this option is a bar with a sliding marker. When this option is selected, you can use the arrow keys to slide the marker back and forth to adjust the viewing area. A smaller viewing area increases the smoothness of the animation on slower Macintoshes. While playing the game you can adjust the size by pressing "-" or "+" on the main keyboard (note that you do not have to hold down the shift key). Pressing the "-" or "+" key on the numeric keypad will not work.SOUND VOLUMEThis selection also has a bar with a sliding marker, allowing adjustment of the volume from "off" to "maximum". These bars modify the music as well as the sound effects volume. You must also set the Macintosh's overall volume through your Sound Control Panel. Pressing F4, or Command-4, will display the volume settings menu directly.MOUSE SENSITIVITYThis selection lets you adjust the sensitivity of your mouse control. Just below this option is a bar with a sliding marker. When this option is selected, you can use the arrow keys to slide the marker back and forth to adjust the sensitivity of the mouse. Also note that by selecting "Turbo" from the Options menu will adjust the speed of your movement while in the game.GAMMA CORRECTIONOn some monitors, DOOM II may appear too dark. Press the function key F11 or Command-G to lighten the screen through five different brightness levels.TIP: Save your game and save it often. When you die, you're back to the beginning of the level, toting that little pistol again. That ain't good, especially after you progress to some of the tougher levels.ON-SCREEN INFORMATION<No changes needed>CONTROLLING THE ACTIONMost of the play commands in DOOM II are a simple keypress away. You can use either your keyboard, mouse, joystick, and combinations of both to move, pick up items, shoot, and open doors. Note that to use the mouse or joystick you will need to select "Mouse" or "Joystick" from the Options menu.MOVINGAt first, you might find yourself bumping into walls while demons beat on you. Once you've got movement down, everything else follows. Select "Preferences..." from the File menu to view and modify the current key settings.WALKING: Use the up and down keys to walk forward and backward.TURNING: The left and right keys turn you left and right.RUNNING: Hold down the Run key and the appropriate movement key to speed yourself up temporarily.STRAFE: By holding down the Strafe key, in combination with the left or right key, you can sidestep, rather than turn left or right. Some key settings provide a separate key to "strafe" left and right (for instance, if you're using the Main Keyboard key settings, "O" will cause you to sidestep to the right while "L" will cause you to turn right).Note: Jumping is very important for successfully completing DOOM II. Though there is no jump key, you can leap from ledges by getting a running start. The faster you are moving the further you will go.TIP: When travelling narrow passages many players have found it useful to examine the Automap in a magnified mode enabling them to see exactly where to step.JOYSTICK OR MOUSE: If you are using a joystick, refer to the enclosed documentation about joysticks. A number of "settings" for various Macintosh-compatible joysticks have been enclosed that will allow you to configure your joysticks for your own preferences. Note that if the Mouse or Joystick is enabled, the menubar is disabled. To access the menus simply press Command-K (Keyboard mode), or press the Command key equivalent of the menu item you want (i.e., S to Save). Moving the mouse cursor to the top of the screen causes the menubar to be displayed while in Keyboard mode.PICKING UP STUFF<No changes needed>USING DOORS, SWITCHES & ELEVATORSTo open most doors and operate switches, stand directly in front of them and press the Spacebar (or other key, if you have changed the "Action" key setting). When you successfully operate a switch, it will change in some way (lights up, flips a handle, etc.). If a switch does not change after a couple of tries, it is probably assigned to do a task that cannot yet be accomplished.LOCKED DOORS: Some doors have security locks, and require you to have a color coded (yellow, red, and blue) security card or skull key to open them. Other locked doors are operated by a switch on a nearby wall. Rather than walking up to the door, you'll need to operate the switch.HIDDEN DOORS: Some doors are hidden. Many of these can be opened by finding a switch. In some cases you just need to walk up to the wall and press the Spacebar/Action key. If you've found a secret door, it will open for you. There are clues that reveal a secret door - a wall that's shifted down or a different color, a flashing light on a wall, etc.ELEVATORS: You'll see platforms that raise and lower. Some platforms operate continuously, while others must be activated. Some of them sense your proximity and lower automatically. Others have a nearby switch. Those without a switch can usually be operated by walking up to the platform and pressing the Spacebar/Action key.TELEPORTERS: Teleporters can be identified by an evil symbol on the floor beneath them. To use a teleporter, walk over the symbol.COMPLETING AN AREAAt the end of each area in DOOM II there is an exit chamber. Enter this chamber and activate the switch inside to exit the area and head onward. When you finish an area, an Achievement Screen tallies your performance. Hidden regions located, ratio of kills, percentage of treasure found, your completion time, and a par completion time are all displayed.ETERNAL LIFE AFTER DEATHIf you die, you restart the level at the beginning with a pistol and some bullets. You have no "lives" limit - you can keep restarting the level as often as you're killed. The entire level is restarted from scratch, too. Monsters you killed before are back again, just like you.FIREPOWER AND HOW TO USE ITWEAPONS: At first, .... <No changes needed>FIRING: To use a weapon, point it towards the enemy and press the Control key (or other key if you have changed the Fire key in the Preferences dialog), or holding down the Control/Fire key for rapid fire. If your shots hit a bad guy, you'll see splattering blood. Don't worry if the enemy is higher or lower than you. If you can see a monster, you can shoot it.AMMO: Different weapons... <No changes needed>COMMANDS AND SHORTCUTSYou should also refer to the pull-down menus, which contain menu items equivalent to the following keys.Command/Keyboard	MenuP = Pause	Commands/PauseEsc Key = MenuTab = Automap (on/off)F1 = Help	Commands/Help, 1F2 = Save	File/Save, SF3 = Load	File/Open, OF4 = Sound Volume	Commands/Sound Volume, 4F5 = Graphic Detail	Commands/Graphic Detail, 5F6 = Quicksave	File/Save, SF7 = End GameF8 = Toggle Messages	Commands/Toggle, 8F9 = QuickloadQ = Quit	File/QuitG = Gamma Correction	Commands/Gamma Correction- = Reduce View+ = Increase ViewK = Keyboard/Access MenubarM = Mouse Enabled (No menubar access, mouse cursor is hidden)J = Joystick Enabled (No menubar access, mouse cursor is hidden)COMMANDS USED ONLY IN AUTOMAPF = Follow mode (on/off)	M = Mark place	C = Clear Marks+ = Zoom in	- = Zoom out	0 = Full map/ZoomWEAPONS SELECTION1 = Fist/Chainsaw	2 = Pistol	3 = Shotgun/Combat Shotgun4 = Chaingun	5 = Rocket Launcher6 = Plasma Rifle	7 = BFG 9000MOVEMENT KEYS (Default Setting)Move Forward = I	Move Backward = KTurn Left = J	Turn Right = LStrafe Left = U (or Opt+J)	Strafe Right = O (or Opt+L)Run Forward = Shift+I	Run Backward = Shift+KFast Turn Left = Shift+J	Fast Turn Right = Shift+LFIRING YOUR WEAPON (Default Setting)Control Key	Mouse Button	Joystick ButtonOPENING DOORS/FLIP SWITCHES (Default Setting)SpacebarTIP: When you're comfortable playing the game, try using the keyboard and the mouse simultaneously. The mouse provides fine control for aiming your weapon (allowing you to smoothly rotate left and right) while the keyboard permits you to activate the many useful functions of the game.DANGEROUS DOOM II ENVIRONMENT<No changes needed>HEALTH AND ARMOR<No changes needed>POWER-UPS<No changes needed>ARTIFACTS<No changes needed>THE ENEMY<No changes needed>---------CREDITS FOR LION ENTERTAINMENT, INC.Produced by	Douglas GroundsProgramming	Douglas Grounds	Jason D. Mann	Bob PendletonArtwork	Kim La CavaThanks to	Eric Klein & Eric Traut, Apple Computer, Inc.	Julie Allen & Kyle Humphries, Motorola, Inc.	Rob Barris