TROUBLESHOOTING ADDENDUMIMPORTANT: Before changing your system or software setup werecommend that you review your system manuals to ensure thatyour modifications will not endanger any existing informationor hardware on your system or network. Modifying your systemor your software setup can be dangerous, and we cannot helpyou with any resulting problems.When DOOM runs, I get a "insufficient memory" error, or DOOM just doesn't run.You do not have enough free RAM to run DOOM. Try allocatingmore memory for DOOM by selecting the DOOM icon (click on itONCE), then select "Get Info" from the File menu while inthe Finder. Increase the number listed as the "Preferred Size".Also, quit all other applications. Turn off System Extensionsand Control Panels.DOOM runs really slow, or locks or "pauses" on a fastsystem (such as a PowerPC-based Macintosh).Refer to the Read Me file about disabling System Extensionsand Control Panels that are not required in order to runDOOM. Turn off all unnecessary Extensions and Control Panels.Also, you can select "Kill Finder" in the setup dialogs. Donot run from a CD/ROM, but copy the WAD file and the Musicfolder to your hard drive and eject any CDs.All PowerPC chips are not created equal. The PowerPC 601,for instance, is much faster than the 603. To increaseplaying speed, reduce the screen size, or change to LowResolution by selecting the "Graphic Detail" item in the"Control" menu (it cycles between Low, Medium and High).One player may be accessing a menu or the keyboard optionsscreen, which cause all other players in a multiplayermode to wait until the operation is complete. Frag theplayer responsible to show your disapproval.The function keys don't seem to work as advertised.Some System Extensions (such as QuicKeys from CE Software)will "remap" the function keys to other uses. Disable theseextensions, or temporarily turn them off while playingDOOM. Also check your key settings in the Key Configurationdialog, available by selecting "Movement..." from the Optionsmenu.The Music sounds horrible, but I have QuickTime 2.0loaded.Ensure that you have a file called "QuickTime Musical Instruments" installed in your Extensions folder. Thatfolder is located in your System Folder of your startuphard drive. If not, install it from the CD/disks intothe Extensions folder.Music is slower on the Macintosh than it is on theIBM¨ PC.QuickTime is used for music (it's software), and is not asfast as the MIDI-compatible sound cards (hardware) thatare common on IBM PCs. Thus, it has to share the processortime with DOOM. Turn the music off by selecting "Music"under the Options menu, or disable the QuickTime Extensionaltogether.I can't hear any music or sound effects even after changingthe Sound and Music volumes using the DOOM menu.Check your master volume controls in the Sound Control panel.The volume controls in DOOM change the DOOM output to therange specified by the Macintosh's sound output volumesetting.I've tried everything and still there's no music.Check to make sure that the "Music" folder is located inthe same folder as the DOOM application. Also, QuickTimeallocates memory in both the "system heap" and "applicationheap" and may not have enough memory. By disabling SystemExtensions and Control Panels and by selecting "Kill Finder"in the options dialog, you should free enough memory forQuickTime to make its needed memory allocations on a Macintoshwith 8MB of installed RAM. You can determine the amount ofinstalled RAM by selecting "About This Macintosh..." underthe Apple menu while in the Finder. If the amount of RAMyou allocate for DOOM is too high, however, you may preventQuickTime from operating (see the error about "InsufficientMemory" above).I've received the message, "Consistency Failure" whilerunning DOOM in multiplayer mode.For DOOM to run properly as a multiplayer game, all ofthe machines that are running DOOM must maintain a nearlyidentical status of the game during network play. If youreceive this message, something has occurred which causedthe multiplayer game on one computer to be different fromthe multiplayer games running on the other systems. Ifthis occurs, all of the players must quit DOOM and restartthe game.I've received the message, "Different versions of DOOMcannot play a net game".To improve DOOM, id Software updates it when necessary. Youcannot play a multiplayer game with someone who is usinga different version of DOOM. The Macintosh version numberis not identical with the overall DOOM version number. Version 1.0 for Macintosh supports DOOM Version 1.9 forthe PC. Any updates of the Macintosh version will specifythe PC version needed. Updates ('patches') can be foundon on-line services or on the internet.Why can't I get DOOM to run as a multiplayer game overIPX/MacIPX?If someone else is running DOOM in multiplayer mode overan IPX network you may receive a network port conflict.From the Multiplayer setup dialog, change DOOM to rununder a different port. Consult with the person incharge of your network to receive a valid port address.You must also ensure that you are using a compatibleversion of IPX (most PCs use Ethernet 802.3, which canbe specified in the MacIPX Control Panel). Also, makesure that you have "Always Auto-Configure Frame Type"turned off.Why isn't the motion smooth?If the animation isn't running smoothly on your systemyou should try reducing the window size and/or playDOOM in LOW resolution mode. Also ensure that youhave disabled any unnecessary Extensions or ControlPanels. Refer to your DOOM manual or the multiplayeraddendum for instructions on these options.DOOM also reads data in from the WAD file as it isneeded. If you have enough memory, create a RAM diskusing the Memory Control Panel and copy your WADfile onto the disk image (it will show up on yourdesktop). Double-click the copy of the WAD file on yourRAM disk to launch DOOM and use the RAM disk copy.The WAD files are quite alarge, so you will need aLOT of RAM to make use of this option (reduce DOOM'smemory requirement to 4500K while using a RAM disk).I'm tired of looking at the company logos at startup.Press the Escape key or click the mouse button toskip the logos and begin a single player game. Orpress "S" for single player options, or "M" formultiplayer options.I can't see the mouse or access the menubar.Press Command-K to return to Keyboard mode (mouseenabled for the menubar). To enable the mouse forcontrol of movement within DOOM, press Command-M(or Command-J for Joystick).Created by id Software, Inc. DOOM ©1994, 1995 byid Software, Inc. All rights reserved. Macintoshconversion by Lion Entertainment, Inc.All trademarks are the property of theirrespective companies.